---
layout: post
title:  "learning Python"
date:   2016-02-10 1:20:00 +0300
categories: jekyll update
---
I learned Python from [Codecademy][code-cademy].

these are function and some basic concepts in Python:

- adding a char to a string ```x += 'A'``` where adding to a list ``` x.append(34)```

- ```evens_to_50 = [i for i in range(51) if i % 2 == 0]``` list comprehension

- ```new = [start:end:stride]``` list slicing where start = begenning of slice including the start, end exclusive, stride step length

- ```len(x)``` returns the length of x

- ```raw_input(x)``` where x is a string message.

- ```list.append(x)``` where x is the value being added.

- ```list.pop(x)``` where x is the index u want to delete.

- ```list.remove(x)``` where x is the item u want to remove.

- ```randint(x,y)``` where  the range of the numbers is x - y. (it is imported from "random").

- ```for index, item in enumerate(choices):``` enumerate helps seperates between the index and the value of the item in the index.

- ```for a, b in zip(list_a, list_b):``` function zip() helps with iterating through multiple lists but stops when the shorter list finishes.

- ```string.split()``` split the string into a list of words

- ```'-'.join(x)``` joins a list of strings with the '-'

- ```dict.items()``` returns the key/value pairs of the dictionary

- ```dict.keys() or dict.values()``` returns the keys and the values respectively

- ```filter(lambda x: x == 'Python', languages)``` filter takes two argument the first is a function the tells is what to filter and we used here "lambda" which allows us to create a small function  


Classes in Python:

- ```class ClassName(object):``` creating a class in python we use a capital letter at the first character of the class's name. Also we can put the derived class's name instead of ```object``` if we want to inherit that class.
- ```def __init__(self, args):``` this function works as the constructors in C++ and Java.```self``` represents the object of this class and ```args``` represents the datamembers of the class that are given when creating an object of the class.

[code-cademy]: https://www.codecademy.com
